Hello, my beautiful co-creators.
Lilou here for Gaiam TV.
A beautiful, delicious,
juicy interview for you guys
right from Orlando, sunny
Orlando, with Mike Dooley.
Hello, Mike.
Welcome, Lilou.
Thank you.
Yeah, because this is your city.
This is home town.
It's always been?
For about 20 years now.
Came here at a pivotal
time in my life.
I had just left the corporate
world and was starting over,
and Orlando was a
great place to do it.
And I've been here ever since.
Yeah.
So you're very well known for
your Notes from the Universe.
You have over half
a million people,
and you're sending your notes,
your delicious citations.
Yeah.
Thank you very much.
It started from a database
of 36 email addresses
when we had t-shirts-- mom,
Andy and I-- in Orlando,
we had several stores,
and we had a guest book.
When people signed
the-- people tend
to want to sing guest books.
So when emails came out-- and
this was back in the day, which
was not that long
ago-- people would
write down their email address.
And so from that, we put
together a little database.
And the first mailing
was to 36 people.
And we're at about a
half a million right now.
But in the meantime, you
were featured in the movie
The Secret.
I'm sure a lot of you
guys have seen that movie.
How was that?
That was awesome.
There was such a
vibe and a buzz.
I had heard from
Rhonda and Glenda.
It was Rhonda's project.
She was doing it
with her sister.
They were big fans from
Melbourne, Australia.
And they were coming to
the US to do a documentary,
and would I be interested.
And honestly, I was very
skeptical at that time.
I didn't know them.
I had just finished
my first world tour.
And it sounded
compelling, though.
And they offered to fly
me to Chicago first class.
And I thought, oh,
this is interesting.
And when I met them,
it was like-- it
was pretty electrifying.
Rhonda was so
convinced that this
was going to rock the world.
You can look back and see it
clearly, kind of supernatural.
At the time, it was
an exciting moment.
But who knows?
And so we did the interview.
It went really well.
I didn't meet a single person.
I went in and left the
same day at the hotel.
And that's how most
of it was filmed.
We were not all together
for the most part.
And then the excitement
just built and built,
and I got phone calls
and emails and stuff
from Melbourne, Australia.
And as the launch
approached, it was pretty
clear it was going to be big.
We all wanted it to be
big, but sometimes it
goes beyond what you want.
There's just this vibe.
And the names, the roster of the
people in it was in increasing.
And that was a turning point.
So we're going to talk
about the law of attraction,
that thoughts become
things, and all of that.
But originally,
you were working--
you were a consultant for
Price Cooper Waterhouse, huh?
Tax consultant.
Today's PricewaterhouseCoopers.
It's a very
conventional background,
which I think has
served me, because it
perhaps grounds what I teach.
I come from a very objective,
black and white, debit
and credit, it's got a
balance kind of background.
And with that grounding, I can
talk about the woo woo, if you
will, with maybe,
to some people,
a little bit more credibility.
I don't take anything on a whim.
And there's a school of
thought that you should.
But I like to chisel
down and get objective.
And then now as a
teacher, take people
from something they can almost
tangibly feel or sense and take
them into the arena
that I want to take them
to with the
realization that we are
the eyes and ears
of the divine come
alive in the dream of life.
We're here by choice.
We're eternal beings.
And here, one of the
absolutes that I teach
is that our thoughts
unfailingly become the things
and events of our life.
There's no mitigating
factors-- not karma,
not ancient spiritual contracts,
not what kind of mood God
is in.
There's no tests.
We create our own tests,
and they're very effective.
When it hurts, it
causes us to realign
and get closer to truth.
It's all about truth.
And so from a very conventional
background-- six years
of PricewaterhouseCoopers,
certified public accountant,
international tax specialty--
I decided I wanted more.
It wasn't who I was.
Respected the firm,
loved the camaraderie,
but I quit not knowing
what I would do.
And that was one of the biggest
turning points of my life.
I was living in Boston.
Sold my condo,
resigned at the manager
level, six years with the firm.
And rented a Ryder truck
to move to Orlando, Florida
to figure it out.
My thinking by then was since
no one came along and rescued me
from the ivory towers of the
corporate world, which I was so
sure they were going to do,
that I better force things
or I would be there forever.
And so I just quit.
Rumors were rampant in
the firm, in the office.
I heard Mike Dooley is
going to open a bookstore.
No, he's opening
a hardware store.
No, he's going to
do a Blockbuster
Video store with his mom.
I was like, where does
this stuff come from?
None of the above were true.
The truth was, I had no flipping
idea what I would do next.
But I was right.
That did force change-- not just
in the termination of my career
at Pricewaterhouse,
but all of a sudden,
it was like jumping in
the deep end of the pool
and learning how
to swim as you go.
I had to figure it out.
I had to do something.
And so within a few months,
teamed up with mom, my brother,
and we launched what
is today's tut.com.
But back then, Tut was just
the name of a little character.
There was a logo on
our t-shirt company.
We started selling
t-shirts from a push cart
on a sidewalk downtown Orlando.
And then it evolved into
totally unique t-shirts,
because we had this
huge line of t-shirts.
And then we had gifts, and
all of the gifts and t-shirts
had a lot of writing on it about
life, dreams, and happiness.
That's my first stab, if
you will, at being a teacher
without even thinking of
myself as being a teacher.
And so the name evolved
into Totally Unique Thoughts
well before the advent
of the internet.
When internet came along,
we wanted a domain name.
And I had a friend
who kept nudging
me who knew about this stuff.
He's like, get tut.com
before it's gone.
Back then, you could get
two-digit domain names.
And I dragged my feet
for eight months.
And finally, I thought, oh,
I'll just get it, and I did.
And because it's such a
short, memorable domain name,
Tut has stuck.
And now we don't really
do much in t-shirts.
We don't use the phrase
Totally Unique Though so much.
But because the domain
name is so precious,
that's how I'm known.
It's the home base of
all that I do today.
You definitely made
some good choices.
You made some--
the right decision.
You did step in the
unknown, not knowing.
A lot of teachers speak about
this stepping in the unknown,
not knowing, but you
did make those calls.
Well, I teach now.
You've got to step.
And it will always seem like
you're stepping into an abyss,
but it's dark and it's
foggy and you can't really
see what's in front of you.
But if you step, the
land will appear.
And it's nice of
you to say that I've
made a lot of right decisions.
But for--
Seems like it.
For anybody at the
crossroads thinking
of making their own
major decisions,
I'm not one necessarily to
advocate such a drastic life
change as my own.
But for anyone in
such a situation,
they may feel like, well,
I would do it too if I
could make some good decisions.
I had no confidence.
I had no clear path.
Every day, I looked back
over my shoulder and thought,
was that the biggest
mistake of my life,
leaving Pricewaterhouse?
I was timid.
I was doubtful.
I was at times negative.
But what I teach now is that
we are so inclined to succeed.
A moment ago, I
said we are the eyes
and ears of God Almighty come
alive in the dream of life.
I wasn't speaking figuratively.
I was speaking literally.
And God doesn't go where
God doesn't want to go.
And while you can't remember the
choices that brought you here,
you can still deduce and discern
that you are of the divine,
so they had to be pretty
dang good choices.
You knew what you were
doing from on high
when you said me, there, now.
And so the game unfolds.
And when you understand
that you are of the divine,
you realize you have an
innate inclination to succeed.
There's a tendency--
a sad tendency--
in our primitive times,
spiritually speaking,
to think that it's
survival of the fittest,
a dog-eat-dog world.
Watch the Discovery Channel,
and it's like good luck
if you want to get ahead.
The odds are against you.
And because we thought that,
we've experienced that.
But if you take a
step back and realize
that the idea of 50-50 survival
is such a joke-- if you just
take stock of your own
life, no matter who you are,
you have laughed more
than you've cried.
You've smiled more
than you frowned.
You've had clarity--
believe it or not--
more than you've been confused.
You've had friends more
than you've been alone.
You've had money
more than you've been
flat broke or in the negative.
Evidencing what I'm saying,
which is a core tenet of what
I teach, to get your
groove on, wake up
to the fact, the
obvious fact, that you
are inclined to succeed.
Every single day,
every single one of us
is being pushed on to greatness.
And if we just see this in
our life, then all of a sudden
we realize we're not at the
whim of a hoped-for good idea.
There's no bad ideas.
No matter what road
you start out on,
you're going to end
up on the right road.
It doesn't matter
which direction you go.
I use GPS navigation
as an analogy
in a lot of my programs.
You need an end result.
That's all you need.
You don't have to know how
you're going to get there.
Those are the cursed hows.
That's the original sin,
the forbidden fruit-- brain
is too small, don't even try.
Just know where you want to
go-- champagne and caviar,
friends and laughter, wealth and
abundance, health and harmony.
Know what that end result
is, that priority is,
so you can program
it into divine GPS.
Step 2, just like
in your car, you've
got to put the thing in gear.
Most people don't put their
car in gear, because they're
like, well, I don't know how.
I don't know where
I'm going to go.
I don't know which is the way.
Of course you don't know how.
You brain is too small.
Divine intelligence knows how.
But you've got to give
it a hand, a leg up,
by putting your car in gear.
And it's just as true in life as
it is with the car navigation.
You can't go wrong.
You go the opposite way that it
theoretically wanted you to go,
and quickly enough, you will
hear make a legal U-turn.
You'll be guided
because you're rolling.
If you're not rolling-- if
your car is in park-- you're
literally telling
divine intelligence,
this phenomenal networking
machine that you're not ready,
that now is not
the time, you need
to get your ducks in a row.
And it doesn't
matter if you've got
a vision board in the backseat.
It doesn't matter if there's a
gratitude rock in your pocket.
Oprah's not calling.
You're not going anywhere.
But start rolling
down any old path,
and they will all seem--
excuse me-- sucky at first.
This is what I tell
people who really don't
know which path to choose.
Assess your options.
If they are like mine were
20 years ago and then again
at another crossroads in
my life just 12 years ago,
they will all suck.
Choose the least sucky and go.
And once you're rolling, having
programmed divine intelligence
with your end result-- that's
all you needed to give it--
abundance, a job that I
love, a great travel partner,
whatever it is that you want.
It knows how, and it's
sending you emissaries
and guidance and angels.
It will connect the dots
for you if you just show up.
And you're bound to have
more confidence showing up--
taking this back to where I
was a moment ago-- when you
understand the truth about
the nature of reality,
that you are inclined to
succeed, you are of the divine,
you didn't come here
to get beaten down.
Look at how well we're
doing as a civilization
right now in the height
of our spiritual naivete.
Look at the commerce.
Look at the technology.
Look at the social networking.
Look at the love that's rampant.
The posts on
Facebook and Twitter,
more often than not-- maybe it's
my circle, but I think not--
there's these warm
and fuzzy tales.
There's inspiration.
This is the nature of
reality that we live in,
and we have these default
settings of abundance.
So with that awareness,
that simple truth
that you are of the divine
and inclined to succeed-- you
then program the
end results, and you
show up down these sucky paths
with simple little baby steps.
And they don't have to be sucky.
It's just if you're
starting over like I have
at several times in my life.
Your sails will be caught
by the infinite, unfailing
winds of the universe, and your
way will be made clear for you.
Wow.
All of that.
And we know how hard it is.
We hear it, and then it's a
matter of bringing it down to--
The times that we've
been born into,
times that we chose to be
born into for the adventure
of the whole thing, for the
emotions that they would evoke.
We know.
We knew then, and
we can sense right
now that this is
all being played
out in the palm of God's hand.
Not to put God out there.
God ain't out there.
God is inside of every
single one of us.
We are of God.
But we're safe.
We're sound.
You know the movie Avatar?
You saw that, I'm sure.
The planet Pandora,
and there was
the earthling, the hero of
the movie, who was a cripple.
So he would go into this
vestibule or this-- what
was that-- a test tube and
chamber, and his consciousness
would be projected out into
this native of the environment.
Here we are.
Actually, in reality, our
consciousness, our core,
our heart is off in the palm
of God's hand somewhere,
and we have animated these
bodies made of this planet
so that we can get our
groove on and think
that we might become less,
think that crazy stuff happens.
All the while, we're actually
discovering that we're
at the helm of our ship.
And this is one of
the main reasons
we're here-- to discover this
power that's innate in all
of us so that we can
have these adventures,
so that we can fall in love
again and again, not only
with the world,
but with ourselves
and go to a place in awareness
that we could not have gone
to had it not been
for the odyssey
into these illusionary
jungles of time and space.
And so you were just saying
it can seem so difficult,
and when we hear it,
we resonate with it,
but then tomorrow, we forget it.
That's because we chose to be
born into incredibly primitive
times, spiritually speaking,
where the entire world,
whether it's wise
grandparents or soppy TV shows
or terrifying movies--
they're reminding us
that we're getting older,
our time is limited,
we're falling apart.
Statistically, chances
of getting ahead
aren't that good, so you
better take some more medicine,
have some more skin
cream, go back to school.
Everything is telling
us that we're doomed,
and so we buy into it.
But because of our inclination
to succeed-- one of the things
I advocate to people I speak
with is just do your best
to immerse yourself in truth.
Today, all of the interviews
you've done-- 2,000, the eight
books I've written, the four
audio programs, and there's
countless other
teachers that are tuned
into the same kind of truth.
So any viewer right now
who feels the excitement
but doesn't want to fall back
out of the boat tomorrow--
well, just have
the audio program.
Get the application
for your Android.
Subscribe to Notes
From the Universe.
And then you're
reassured and bolstered
with the confidence you need.
The cool thing was everybody
that's part of Gaiam,
they have all those thousands
of videos and movies
and documentaries and
interviews from so many people,
and they're really
people that want it.
And then boom, all
of a sudden, life
shows up in a different
way, and we're
right back at ground zero.
Well, there's a couple
of thoughts that
come to mind when you say that.
One is a personal
revelation that I've had
in the last couple of years.
Everyone-- everyone-- is all
about, whether they admit it
or not, changing their life.
And when I first
realized that, I
was like are we a
sorry bunch of misfits
or what that no
one is satisfied?
But with a deeper look at
that, that doesn't need
to be the conclusion we draw.
Being the eyes and
ears of God, do
you think there's a
stopping point where
you'd like-- OK, I made it.
I won the gold medal.
Now let me just go back to aw.
Divine intelligence is way
too cool, way to adventurous
to do that.
So what divine intelligence
has as its own characteristic--
inevitably, guaranteed, and it's
a part of all of our heritage
and chemistry, or
DNA, if you will--
is that we are all blessed with
a divine sense of incompletion.
And this is not a curse.
It's a hallmark of greatness.
It means, however, that we
will always feel incomplete.
We will always feel like
once I get this, I want that.
And once I polish that off,
oh, it's dusty over there.
This means we're always going
to have an adventure before us.
We're always going to
find some way to grow.
No matter how
great we've become,
no matter how loving we've
become, there's another level.
Thank God.
So realize that just because you
don't yet have what you want,
it doesn't mean there's
something wrong with you.
Because that is a given for
the rest of consciousness's
existence.
There will always be stuff you
want but you don't yet have.
So you learn to be happy even
as you strive to become more,
because you will forever
be striving to become more.
And therefore, don't
put your happiness
off until that day
you feel complete,
because it's not coming.
So not getting frustrated at
what we don't have, but be
grateful for having those
dreams and feeling the vibration
of that thing that we
want and those things
without making ourselves wrong.
The only way there could
ever be a dream come true
is if there was a moment before
it when it hadn't come true.
Every want or desire speaks
to growth and greatness
that has not yet existed.
So just because
something is even greater
doesn't mean you have to be
unhappy with where you are.
You can be rocking happy
with where you are.
And this is not
settling for less.
In fact, this is how you grease
the wheels-- be happy now.
And when you find
a sense of peace
with your ever-yearning
desire for growth
and you can smell the
flowers on the way
to the top of the mountain,
then it gets easy.
Then at long last,
we enjoy the journey
that we've always been told to
enjoy but no one seems to be
doing it, and the
whole adventure takes
on a different coloration.
We can be happy in the moment
even with credit card debt,
even filing for bankruptcy, even
recovering from a broken heart.
You can be happy now.
It's in your mind.
And this will blast you
forward into new realms.
It's a misconception,
then, that if we
are grateful for those
small little things in life,
we won't get stuck with
those small little things?
No.
That makes me think of
something that somebody
said in an audience of mine.
I was telling them using
my little matrix tool
that happiness is truly
the ultimate end result.
It's the ultimate dream.
It's the ultimate desire.
Most people falsely
interpret that
as be happy with what you have.
Most people interpret
that as settling for less.
Most people interpret that
as happiness is important
and material things aren't.
Stop the train.
One of the reasons
I advocate happiness
being the ultimate end
result is because it
makes you a money magnet.
It makes you a
confidence magnet.
It makes you a joy
magnet for even more.
This is how you get more money--
by focusing on happiness.
Don't focus on happiness
because money is not important.
Money is important.
It's not the only thing.
There's so much more, and
you can be happy without it.
But you need not exclude it.
There's nothing at all remotely
unspiritual about money.
Unspiritual?
Right.
Thank you.
So by focusing-- it's
interesting, because when we
are broke and we have
the heart broken,
how can I be grateful for not
having this partner in my life?
How can I be grateful for not
having that money in my life?
Because it makes
possible heights
that you have not yet imagined.
And everyone deserves--
and I would even say
needs-- the time of grief,
the time of healing,
a timeout in their life.
But I would just say do
your best not to wallow
and not to get stuck there.
Actually, it's
impossible to ultimately
get stuck there, because we are
so inclined to move forward.
But when you're in
that place or you're
bedridden because you're
sick and you're just
like, how could
this happen to me?
Look at everybody outside
playing and having a good time.
And now I'm sick, and
what's wrong with me?
See it as part of
the process that
makes more and more
happiness, love,
harmony, whatever possible.
All of us have dreams.
And every dream, as
I said a moment ago,
is a benchmark for a place we
have never been before in terms
of thought, in terms
of belief, in terms
of how we define possible.
And so every unfulfilled dream
and wish is a gift, as Richard
Bach said in Illusions.
So just because you don't
have what you now want,
it doesn't mean you're
not going to get it.
Moreover, if you're in a
low point, where you are
is never who you are.
Where you've been
is no indicator
of where you're going.
And while that might not soothe
the pain of a broken heart,
for a good long time,
at least it perhaps
will plant a seed for later
growth, future ripening,
and you will be happy again.
You will see that you
were inclined to succeed.
And it was simply
a matter of getting
clear with your priorities.
What is it, money?
What is it, health?
Was is it, a relationship?
And then do something about it,
no matter how feeble it seems.
It will always seen
feeble in the beginning.
Take the baby steps.
So living the dream-- how
do we reach the dream,
how do we define the dream?
It seems sometimes that we are
dreaming other people's dream.
That's very true, and it
can get very complicated.
And I for one want to
avoid any complications.
Don't try to define happiness.
What is happiness?
I don't know.
It's great to get a
lot of perspectives.
But in the end, it's a
matter of just tuning
into your own inner barometer.
Where are you right
now, and apart
from enjoying and
making the most of it,
where would you like to be?
Where would you like to go?
Without a road
map for right now,
without examining or untangling
your self-sabotaging,
invisible limiting beliefs--
all that's too complicated.
As I teach in my programs, my
workshops, playing the matrix--
there's basically two steps--
define what you want in terms
of the end result. And if
happiness is too nebulous,
then don't go there.
It happiness is too nebulous,
say I want more health.
I want to have a
busier social life.
I want to have a job that
I don't even call a job.
It's play.
I want to have more money.
I want to travel
internationally.
Just decide what
some of these are.
You're not excluding
anything else.
And now you've got direction.
That's step one.
Step two is do something
about it every day.
Just be out there in the world.
And don't be discouraged
that it seems daunting.
If it hasn't manifested yet?
It takes time.
And just like a pot that never
seems to never boil when you're
watching it, you're
going to get there faster
if you stop noticing
what's missing in your life
and you master what's
in front of you,
one little step at a time.
I started out sending emails
for free to people with no light
at the end of the tunnel.
I would imagine
you started doing
interviews not knowing how
it would ever come together.
But because you
showed up and you
did it to the best of your
ability, now you're distracted.
And you're making
one more phone call,
and there's one more light
at the end of the tunnel,
because so and
so's assistant just
called you back and said maybe.
And so now you're in the
throes and you're moving.
This is life.
It's not the destination.
It's not getting there.
But because you have a
destination and an end result--
and I would urge everyone
to have dreams-- that's
what end results are--
now you've got direction,
and now you're moving.
I thought a minute
ago that I was
going to take you on a tangent
based on a question you said.
Somebody raised their
hand once and said,
what if I choose happiness
as my only end result?
And the person could clearly
see there was some reason to do.
Even old school
tells you be happy.
But that's all I get-- what
if I just end up happy?
And while it brought about a lot
of laughs in the auditorium--
the irony of worrying
about only being happy--
their fear was legitimate.
What if I'm happy and broke?
What if I'm happy and sick?
What if I'm happy and
alone and unemployed?
But it's like, the
universe is you.
And one of my favorite
things from the Bible-- and I
am not religious, not
anything in that area.
I was raised a Catholic, so
I've got some rooting there.
But I pick and choose.
I cherry pick from the Bible.
One of the things from the
Bible was before you even ask,
you're heard.
And this is so true.
You don't even have to say I
want money and to be happy.
If you say happy,
really woo hoo happy
dance happy-- this
is what I want,
this is my end result-- you
visualize for five minutes
every day just dancing around,
being happy without a reason--
you don't have to give
yourself a reason--
that energy goes out into the
universe like a thunderclap.
And by law, it comes
back as people and places
and circumstances that will
stimulate that reaction
from you all over again.
And all of a sudden,
it's made manifest.
It's become a thing.
You're happy for a reason.
The universe will figure
out the reasons for you.
And when you're putting out that
kind of happiness, when you're
visualizing or when
you're driving to work
or your walking the dog or
falling asleep at night,
and you're exuding joy
for no reason-- and this
is easy to do.
You just fake it.
I do it with my audiences.
We just do woo, woo, and
they're bouncing off the walls.
The universe will
connect the dots for you.
And realize that the only way--
my gosh, Lilu-- that you're
going to be that crazy happy
that you're just bouncing off
the walls is if you've
got work you love,
if you've got enough money
to live life on your terms
as you define it,
however you want it,
if you've got health, if
you've got a place to go,
if you've got friends
to laugh with.
And so all of that is
now being coordinated
because of the end
result of happiness
that you've programmed.
So you cannot be
technically happy and broke,
happy and-- when you put words
to truth, they always slip.
So you can be happy
even if you don't
even have a shirt on your back.
But to be woo woo happy in
this Western world and much
of the world where there's been
such advancement economically
and otherwise, you can have
happiness with abundance.
It would be almost impossible
in the United States
to be rocking, woo woo happy
as you and I would define it
and be broke.
And I'm not saying
that you'd be tested
or given that opportunity.
If you're putting that
kind of joy out there,
you're going to have money.
It's going to come to you.
You'll find a way.
You'll have an idea.
It might not be tomorrow.
It might be next month.
But when dreams come
true, they always
are better than you
thought they'd be,
and it always happened
faster than you
thought they would happen.
And with my life
today, I look back
and I think-- it's 12
years since the last really
low point.
If somebody had told me it would
be years before I was doing
a world tour, years before I saw
light at the end of the tunnel,
I would have been devastated.
I would have said,
what about the magic?
But now, 12 years later and
for many, many, many years
living the life of
my dreams, there'd
be no price too high to pay
for this kind of a life.
I would of waited 12, I
would have waited 24 years.
I would wait anything so
that in my last breath,
I could have lived a little
bit like I'm now living.
And then you think,
oh, that was fast.
How about the emotion part?
Can you tell us about that?
Because sometimes
there's different levels.
Even when I hear you
bouncing off the wall,
I feel that now-- I feel
it's more about really
feeling it in the heart.
Because sometimes,
we get overexcited,
and then it's not exactly that
same really deep vibration
that will go straight
to that heart desire
that is so pure, so real.
That's so, so powerful, which
is another reason automatically
that happiness is such
a force for change--
positive, wonderful change,
because it triggers emotion.
It is an emotion.
Emotion is the turbocharger
of manifestation.
Emotion is-- that might
sound kind of silly,
but it makes manifestations
happen faster.
If you want that and
you want, woo hoo,
that, you're going to get this
a lot faster if you can feel it.
And again, people
get tripped up,
because they think
they have to figure out
how they're going to feel that.
You don't have to
figure out how you're
going to be woo woo happy.
You just do that happy dance
every morning for five minutes,
three minutes, four
minutes, and do your best,
even if you feel
totally doubtful
and insecure and
perplexed, just to show
up in some direction that
might be the right direction.
That's it.
The universe grabs the
baton and takes you there.
Emotion bypasses
the cursed house.
Emotion automatically
takes our mind off
of how am I going to get there.
It puts you to that place
of I'm there, I'm there,
I'm there even though
you didn't know how
you were going to get there.
You didn't have to
know how you got
there so long as you showed up.
I'll share with you a
question that viewers
might be thinking now.
It comes up often.
I tell people never worry or
mess with the cursed hows,
meaning don't worry about how
your dream will come true.
Brain is too small.
Can't do it.
Divine intelligence
handles that.
I also say repeatedly-- I've
already said-- every day,
ask yourself what else
can I do and do it,
no matter how
seemingly futile it is.
Take action.
As others phrase it,
take massive action.
This doesn't mean
work your fingers
to the bone or work overtime.
This means during the time
that's allotted, be there.
Be your best.
Shine.
So how do you not mess
with the cursed hows, yet
every single day, show up, show
up, be there, knock on doors,
turn over stones?
The thing that makes a
cursed how a cursed how
is not what you do.
It's how you view what you do.
It's how or why you
view yourself doing it.
If you're going to
go down this path,
write that book because it's
going to be a bestseller,
Oprah is going to
fall in love with it,
you will rock the world,
live in abundance-- oh man,
that is totally cursed hows.
But if, on the other
hand-- same thing--
you're going to write that book
because you feel like you've
got something to say,
and hey, maybe the sales
will be caught by the
unfailing wins of the universe,
but you're also going to go
to this networking meeting,
and you're also going to
join Toastmasters to get over
your fear of speaking-- that's
what I did-- you're also going
to dabble with
internet marketing,
you're also going to go out
and take a microphone with you
wherever you go, you're also
going to go out and join leads
groups and network-- now
you're writing a book
and you're doing this
and you're doing that,
all of which would be led
by your own inner barometer,
your inner feelings.
I'm not saying do everything.
I'm saying do the least sucky.
Or if you're in a place where
you have some preferences,
do those preferences.
Do what you can with
what you've got.
And don't view any one of them
as how my dream will come true.
Immediately, it turns
into a cursed how.
View it as, this
might be the way.
Let me give it
1,000%, let me give
it my all while simultaneously
giving these other things my
all.
I pursued writing-- just
Notes From the Universe,
little emails.
A book was too overwhelming.
I pursued audio programs.
I pursued internet marketing,
viral marketing, all
that jazz, affiliate marketing.
I pursued the
Toastmasters speaking
and some other things
that never really went
anywhere all at the same time.
You don't have to pick one.
If you have something
that you're absolutely
in love with-- you're a dancer,
and by teaching dancing,
you can afford to do
dancing exclusively.
Or for any other reason, you
can afford to do it exclusively,
then you can just stay
you where your heart
is because you love it and
because you can afford it.
But if you don't yet
know what you love,
or you know what you
love, but you can't yet
afford to do it exclusively--
knock on other doors,
diversify within the same
realm-- dance studios,
dance education.
Put together a troop.
Knock on all these doors within
the dance or entertainment
realm so that not one of them
has to be your saving grace.
It's too much pressure.
You end up carrying the weight
of the world on your shoulders.
So what's the focus, then?
It's how I feel, how
good all this feels,
it's following the intuition?
For what?
All of those things.
For me, the number
one focus ought
to be what general
area-- keep it
general at this stage--
what general area do
you most want to see change in.
That's it.
Don't say the general
area of my life
that I'd like to see
changing in is my painting.
That's not general.
Maybe it's your creativity.
Maybe it's your vocation.
That's general.
Is it your vocation?
Is it health?
Is it relationships?
You get to decide.
There's any number of big
picture, big category items.
Now you've got direction.
You've got guidance.
Once you've got the
general basket named
as your high priority for
change, then, as you just said,
you tune in.
You ask yourself,
of the things that I
could do in this direction,
what appeals to me most?
What makes sense?
Please weigh in intellect.
Too many new-to-spiritual
people, newly spiritual people,
are all about throw out logic
and just live by your heart.
And I think that's crazy.
We have a mind for a reason.
It assesses what is
pleasing to us, what
is a great compliment to us.
It's a great tool.
True, it's wildly overrated
in our primitive times-- logic
and the intellect, wildly.
And I'm not saying
use it because it
knows how to get there.
It doesn't know
how to get there.
But oftentimes, if
something doesn't
intellectually feel right,
it's not that it's impossible.
All things are possible.
But it could be you've
stubbed your toe
on an invisible limiting belief.
And if you ignore it, this
intellectual hesitancy, then
you're ignoring this block,
and you're going to be bounding
your head against the wall.
Either figure out what the
invisible limiting belief is--
but that's a tall task,
and I don't recommend it,
I have a workaround--
or slightly
change your perspectives.
Knock on this door next to it.
Knock on the agency door.
Knock on the lawyer door.
In the same genre,
knock on different doors
until it does make sense.
And then with your heart
and your mind in unison
to the best of your
ability-- even though there
will be lot of doubt if you're
just starting out from a crash
and burn like I
was 12 years ago--
at least now you're rolling.
And one day will
lead to another.
And in seven days, you'll see
things you couldn't see today.
In seven months,
you'll see things
you couldn't have seen then.
And because you're rolling,
the scenery will change.
You'll have a new best friend.
You'll have a new epiphany, and
the miracles will be unfurled.
And when you don't have that
drive, the energy is not there,
and you-- because it can be
daunting when you don't have--
Very daunting in
these primitive times.
When you don't have the drive,
I would say it's probably
because you're not yet
on that place of truth
where you're realizing your
inclination to succeed.
So immerse yourself
in more truth.
It's also quite
possible that some
of the things that
I talk about-- I'm
always talking about abundance.
I'm always talking about
traveling internationally.
It's one of my passions.
But if that doesn't
resonate with you
and you're trying to make
it resonate with you,
what does resonate with you?
And give yourself a timeout
if you need to discern that.
Just don't be
timed out too long.
I'd say fake it until you
make it or go to that job
you hate is better
than doing nothing.
Better than doing nothing.
This doesn't mean you
stay there forever,
but you need to be
mixing with life,
or otherwise, you'll
lose your footing.
And it's harder and
harder every year
that goes by to join the dance.
So just do anything.
It's better than nothing.
And as you're doing
it, immersed in truth,
reminded constantly of your
divine power, your inclination
to succeed, that
you're never alone,
that you're supernatural--
you will find that path.
When I started out
writing emails and joining
Toastmasters, I really
didn't like either,
and there was no light
at the end of the tunnel.
I hated speaking.
I shook like a leaf
on a tree in front o
12 strangers giving
my ice breaker.
The Notes From the Universe were
kind of fun in the beginning.
I like the creativity.
But there was no money.
They're still free.
It was like, what am I doing?
I was always feeling
this resistance.
But I would still ask
myself what else could
I do, how else
could I try it, what
are other people doing with this
new thing called the internet.
I could send out a daily email.
I could network.
I could learn about
affiliate marketing.
And I asked for help.
I asked for help.
Let that be a door you knock on.
I asked Toastmasters for help.
I asked entrepreneurs for help.
I asked neighbors for help.
This is a big deal for a
man to ask for help, maybe
even more so than a woman.
That's funny, because
I know a lot of women
who have trouble
asking for help,
particularly women in a career.
They think that it's not
right or it's not done.
Well, male or
female, you're nuts
if you don't ask for
help, because everyone
wants to help you.
Some will be too
busy, and that's OK.
Nine out of 10 will give
you more information--
too much information
in many cases--
than you even ever hoped
that they would give you.
I asked a professional
speaker for help.
I was at Toastmasters
scared of my own shadow,
and I went to
these NSA meetings,
National Speakers Association
meetings, as a paying guest.
And I approached the president
of the Central Florida chapter,
and I said, hey,
you live in Orlando.
I live in Orlando.
And you're speaking.
I'd like to speak one day.
Could I just ask you some
questions about how you got
started, how you dealt
with the fear, how
you dealt with the nerves?
I never wrote myself
off, because I
was totally petrified.
It made sense to
me intellectually
to knock on the
door of speaking,
because I felt like I
had something to say.
And lo and behold, this guy was
the one who ended up suggesting
I create an audio
program with him--
the president of the
NSA Central Florida--
that I ended up titling
Infinite Possibilities.
He bailed out before the
first recording was done.
But by then, man, I was
like-- I had a path.
I had no path until I asked
this guy for help on speaking,
and he gave me help
on something else.
And this is so typical.
When you take
action, you're going
to knock on these three doors.
And because you knocked on
those three doors, all of which
were duds, door 95 opens up,
or 95 through 100 open up,
or 7 through 10 open up,
and you're like, holy cow,
where did that come from?
Those doors would
not have opened
if you were at home waiting for
an epiphany and a green light.
Go do stuff now, and never stop.
Today I live the
life of my dreams.
Every day I ask myself,
what else could I try?
How else could I approach this?
Where else could I go?
How could I repackage
what I'm doing?
I view myself now as a teacher.
I love teaching the
nature of reality.
I'm blessed, happy,
fortunate, whatever--
and I take some credit for it,
because this is what I teach--
we create our own reality--
to have people who
want to hear what I'm teaching.
So my questions center
around how can I reach more,
how can I make it more fun for
those who I'm already reaching?
Notes From the Universe-- who
could have-- if I had ever
thought of that when I
was at my lowest of lows,
I would have thought, that is
the stupidest, most arrogant,
conceited, blockhead idea.
But I didn't wait
for the epiphany
that I would have shot down.
I just started writing as Mike.
And then writing as Mike
for eight months, first
weekly, then daily, and
having fun with it--
although plenty of people
unsubscribed every day--
I had this idea right from
the universe's perspective,
because you could say more.
And it would come
from a higher Place.
Maybe you'd have more of a pow
to the reader, the punchline.
And when I wrote the first one,
capitulating to this idea that
came from heart and mind, I saw
that there was room for humor.
If Mike-- who knows Mike--
says, by the way, you rock,
it's like, who are you, dude?
But if the universe
punctuates his or her
or its email with, by the way,
you rock, it's like, oh yeah.
That's where I live.
That's what I'm talking about.
This is the divine intelligence
that we are immersed in.
And so I saw there
was room for humor.
I could not have gotten
to that point had
I not written as the universe.
And I could not have
written as the universe
if I had not written
for a eight long months
as Mike, which was
never as much fun
ever as popular as the
universe writings came to be.
But that evidences, if you
will, the metamorphosis
that a life and a
journey and an adventure
takes on, guiding you to places
you never could have dreamed
of going and you never
would have gone if you
didn't just start scared,
alone, in the dark,
down some sucky path.
You brought up an
important point, too-- when
we start going in a direction
and then there's a person that
says yes, and then this
person doesn't show up
or we end up not doing
it with that person,
but then there's something
else that shows up,
but it put us where
we need to be.
And sometimes, we
have a way of saying,
no, but this is this
person, and then
we give up that whole
project altogether when this
was just a way to get there.
The Juicy Living Tour,
many things that I've done,
it was originally
for the OWN Network.
It didn't work out.
But then I was the concept.
The idea was there.
And off I go.
I'm going to do it on my own.
But it was instead of being
the victim and saying,
oh my god, they didn't
support me and this.
No.
There's something else
even greater than that.
So awesome.
That's exactly what I teach.
It's so easy if you
just keep showing up
and you don't draw conclusions
with your physical senses,
because they lie.
They see nothing of the
miracles that are whirling
all around you right now.
Rhonda Byrne's
dream for The Secret
that got me and everyone
else so excited was it
would be the first
documentary program
that was to air
on every major TV
station on this entire
planet the same day.
They went to Cannes.
They went to markets
all over the planet.
They had this
magnificent project.
They were getting people ready
for it before it was even done.
And every network-- this
was the dream-- on Earth
was going to air
it on the same day.
Can you imagine
what it would have
been like if that had happened?
Not one network on the planet--
not even her investor--
I think it's Channel 3 in
Australia-- said this is cool,
this is good.
They said no.
Everyone said no.
And can you imagine--
she had told me.
She had told everyone in The
Secret and the 200 other people
they interviewed-- everyone
knew that this was the dream.
This was a done deal.
We were so sure it
was a done deal.
Rhonda was electrifying with
her enthusiasm and passion
towards the end result.
Her end result--
bringing joy to billions.
I remember that the morning
I met her in Chicago--
bringing joy to billions.
That's pretty out
there, up there,
big number, pretty
bodacious, if you will.
And when they all said no,
she turned to the people who
were in The Secret
and said, things
aren't going quite as planned.
But would you announce it
to your respective list?
By then, I had--
back then, it was,
I think, only 70,000
people on my mailing list,
but it was a core group.
And all of the other teachers
had thousands on their list.
And it picked up just as well.
I don't know what would
have happened if it had
been every major
network, but it was
like spontaneous combustion.
Way before Oprah got it,
way before Larry King
did two shows, way before
Ellen, way before-- it
was already on fire.
I was one of the distributors.
There was no factory that
could keep up with the demand.
It was no advertising other
than the word of mouth
from the people who were in it.
And it was one of those
beautiful things where
the desire for truth in
the world was so great,
and the presentation that was
put together in The Secret
was so ideally
suited to the masses
who wanted truth
that it was like,
bam, spontaneous illumination.
Dots were connected,
and it took off,
and all the others
came on board.
But what you said, though,
speaks to exactly that.
And if I could
synthesize it down to not
attaching-- I was talking
about the curse of hows--
don't attach to a how.
Be open for even better,
which you might not
know what better is, so
go with what you've got,
but be open for better.
I also teach don't ever
attach to a specific person
behaving in a specific way.
Whether it's your spouse
or your hope-to-be spouse,
you can't control them.
You're setting yourself
up for absolute heartbreak
and ultimate failure as
humans define failure
if you're attaching
your happiness
or expectations on the
behavior and judgment
and thoughts of someone else.
They are untouchable,
and I am untouchable,
and you are untouchable.
And this was what we
agreed to coming here.
We're like, OK, I'll
do time and space time.
Planet Earth looks really cool.
But no one is going
to manipulate me.
No one is giong to own me.
No one is going to own you, OK.
And so these people that
you'd like to pin down,
they entered the same agreement.
No one can be directed
or manipulated,
and this saves all of us.
Similarly, do not attach
to unimportant details,
and all details are unimportant.
This is what my matrix teaches.
Visualize the details.
Get excited about the
bling or whatever it is,
holding hands with someone.
Visualize even specific
people, but leave
the door open for even better.
And by not attaching-- which is
what you just said with the OWN
Network and all the great
work you're doing now Gaiam,
and what I did when my path
didn't unfold the way I thought
it would, and all of the
other success stories--
there was not that attachment.
And people have been taught-- or
they misunderstood the secret.
The universe loves you,
and it'll make it happen,
and there's a law of attraction.
It's as predictable as gravity.
I'm going to make Trixie
fall in love with me,
and my book will be a
bestseller, because all things
are possible.
It's like, ah, there's these
nuances that are all important.
Don't mess with the hows.
Don't insist on a
specific person,
and don't attach to
unimportant details
that are all unimportant, and
then the world is your oyster.
Beautiful.
How juicy.
Very, very delicious
conversation.
Thank you, Mike, for all these
wonderful thoughts, food.
This is rich.
This is abundant.
This is so what I love.
I am so happy.
I'm so happy our
paths have crossed.
Thanks so much, Lilou.
You're welcome.
Well, we wish you
amazing, amazing
co-creations here to you
guys, wherever you live,
wherever you are.
Many, many blessings.
Your few books name-- we
didn't really talk about them,
but just a few titles?
Tut.com, my website.
T-U-T dot com.
It's leveraging the
universe, engaging
the magic, world tours.
We'll cross paths when
the time is right.
Much love.
Bye bye.
Thank you for watching.